[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name's Gregg Braden
and I'd like to welcome you
to "Missing Links: The Deep
Truth of Our Origin, History,
Destiny, and Fate."
In this episode,
we'll explore one
of the paradigm-shattering
discoveries
that you just aren't seeing
in mainstream science
and mainstream media.
In our last episode,
we identified
the three natural cycles that
are colliding in our world
right now and wreaking
havoc on our lives.
They're the cycles of climate
change, cycles of economy,
and cycles of human conflict.
Well, each of these
cycles alone would
be enough to disrupt
our lives and challenge
our ways of living, and
the fact that all of them
are converging right now, it
leaves very little question
as to why we're living
this time of extremes.
Question now.
So what can we do about it?
If we can't change
the cycles themselves,
then what can we change to make
our lives better and create
better families and
stronger communities as we
go through this change?
Well, the answer
to this question
is what I want to talk
to you about today.
It lies in the way
we ask ourselves
a timeless question
and our willingness
to answer that question.
As I mentioned before,
there's a lot of good news
that comes with our time
of extremes and part
of that news is
that we already have
the solutions to the big
problems in our world.
We have the
technological solutions.
Here's what I mean by that.
We already have all
the food we need
to feed every mouth of every
child, every woman, every man,
on the face of the Earth today.
The lack of food
is not the reason
that our global family goes to
bed hungry when and in the way
that they do.
The United Nations
recently told us
that we have food security
for at least another 50 years
barring some calamity
like an asteroid hitting
the Earth or a solar flare
wiping out the planet.
We have the food.
So it's not the lack of food.
It is the lack of the
priority that has yet
to be made for that
food to be placed
where it's needed right now.
We already have all
of the technology
that we need to
create electricity
and to bring it into
the home of every family
on the planet that wants
to have electricity.
I found recently that not all
families want electricity,
but those that do, we have
the way to create that power.
We can do it affordably.
We can do it with
zero greenhouse gases.
And we can do it in a
way that's sustainable.
We've already
discovered how to build
economies that are based
in cooperation and sharing,
rather than competition
and scarcity.
And we already know how to
build clean, sustainable, and
self-sufficient communities
like the one you're seeing
on your screen right now.
This community is designed
to house over 5,000 people.
They grow all of their own food.
They produce all their
own energy and they
have 100% employment
rate because everyone
that wants to work is
working to grow the food
and produce the power to
sustain the community.
This one is based in northern
Arizona in the United States.
We already have
everything we need.
The knowledge to reverse
disease, to reverse aging,
and to trigger the
healing mechanism
within our human body.
Every organ in the human
body is now documented
under laboratory conditions
with the ability to heal itself.
Even the organs we were
told could not do so,
brain tissue, spinal cord
tissue, heart tissue,
pancreatic tissue,
all of them now
are documented with the ability
to reverse disease and heal
themselves.
The key is they must be
given the right conditions.
So when you hear that all of
these solutions already exist,
when you hear that
they're already available,
there's probably a question that
immediately comes to your mind,
and it's probably the same
question that came to my mind
when I discovered
this technology
and that the solutions
have already been created.
The question is where are they?
Why don't we see them
in the world right now?
Why aren't we seeing
them in every nation?
this technology
to create the clean energy?
Why aren't we seeing the food
being distributed the way
it needs to be distributed?
Well, the answer
to that question
opens the door to what I believe
is an even greater crisis.
It's a silent crisis very
few people are talking about.
It's a crisis in thinking.
We've got to change
the way we think
before all of these solutions
can make sense in our lives
and unless the thinking
allows for the possibilities,
the solutions simply are
not being implemented.
Let me give you an example of
what I mean when I say this.
In the 1960s, we saw
something amazing
happening on this planet.
1961, then President
John F. Kennedy
gave a speech to the
United States Congress.
What he said in that speech, he
said, by the end of the decade,
by the end of the
1960s, he said,
we vow to place
a man on the moon
and to bring him back safely.
>> I believe that this
nation should commit itself
to achieving the goal,
before this decade is out,
of landing a man on the moon
and returning him safely
to the Earth.
No single space
project in this period
will be more
impressive to mankind.
>> And he met that goal with
the help of the science,
the engineering, the
ingenuity, the courage,
and the will of all the
people that made that happen.
He met that goal in
less than the 10 years
that he had committed to.
People ask me all
the time, Greg,
how did that happen so quickly?
How were we able to
develop the technology
and create the blueprints
and develop the engineering
skills to build the
spacecraft to send
those people and the
communication to the moon
and bring them back?
How did we do that so quickly?
Well, the answer
to that question
is the same answer to
the crisis in thinking
that I'm talking to
you about right now,
and here is the answer.
The answer is that
all of the solutions
to send a human to the moon
and bring that human back,
they already existed in 1961.
As difficult as
that might sound,
we already had all of
that technology available.
However, until John
Kennedy made it
a priority through
his leadership,
we never had the mandate
to focus that priority
to achieve a specific goal.
And I'm using that as an example
because that is precisely
the opportunity that
we have right now.
With leadership--
and I'm not saying
it has to come from
any specific country
or any specific
organization-- I'm
simply saying that
if we have the focus
to bring what we already
have achieved together
and to apply it in a meaningful
way to our global family,
we have the opportunity to
end much of the suffering
and the roots of the wars
that we're seeing today.
But to do that, we've
got to think differently.
It all comes down to the way
we answer a single question.
As individuals, each of us
answers a single question
in our lifetime.
Sometimes it's a
conscious answer.
Sometimes it's subconscious.
Every human who's ever
walked the face of the Earth
and looked into the cosmos
in the dead of night
has asked themselves this
question silently, out loud,
consciously, or subconsciously.
The question, it's the
basis for every choice
that we've ever
made in our lives.
The way we answer this
question, the reason
for every decision that we
have ever made in our lives
is linked to the way we
answer this question.
The heart of every challenge
we will ever have in our lives
is directly linked to the
way we answer this question.
So what is the question?
Please do not be deceived by
the simplicity of this question.
It is deceptively simple.
The question is simply
this, who are we?
Who are we?
Or as individuals, we ask
the question, who am I?
The way we answer this question,
it's important for this reason.
The way you answer
the question--
I want to make this
personal-- the way
you answer the question,
who am I for yourself, it
forms the lens, the
perceptual lens,
through which you
will see yourself,
will see other people,
through which you
will see the world,
through which you will see
every relationship, every job,
every career, every
health care choice,
every financial decision.
They all filter through
this perception of the way
we answer the
question, who am I?
All of a sudden, I can't think
of a more important question
for us to answer because it is
the foundation of our lives.
It's the foundation
of everything
that we do in our lives.
Well, I've spent the bulk of my
adult life searching the world
to answer this
question for myself.
I wanted to know for myself
who am I as an individual?
Who are we as humans?
What are we doing
here and what is
our relationship to the world?
Let me just share with you a
little bit about my thinking.
As an engineer, as a
scientist, as a geologist,
my thinking has been that if
I can find the places least
disturbed in the modern
world that the information
our ancestors left for us,
that they knew in their time,
that maybe we're only
now discovering in ours,
or the information that
they knew in their time
that we have yet to discover, if
I could find those places that
were least disturbed,
the information
would be more intact.
Very few people
would have seen it.
It wouldn't have been
disturbed the way
that so many of the easy to get
to places have already been.
Well, I want to
tell you, my journey
has taken me on some of
the most amazing journeys
and to some of the most
amazingly magnificent,
remote, isolated,
pristine, beautiful place
remaining in this planet today.
I've been to some of the
most amazing temples.
I've been to some of the most
awesome, awesome monasteries
on the face of the Earth today.
And I've been to very
humble monasteries.
It was on this
particular monastery,
on the Tibetan Plateau,
16,000 feet above sea level,
it took six days out of the
capitol of Tibet, out of Lhasa,
to get to this place, to
acclimate to the elevations.
And the only way to
get up to this place
was through the local
animals, the yak,
that were available to
us because there just
was no way to get a
vehicle up to where
this particular monastery is.
But it was worth it because
when we got to this place,
I had the opportunity to
interact with the people,
with the monks and the nuns
and the abbots that were here.
And I asked them a question that
I asked everywhere that I went.
And the question was
simply this, in this place,
do you have a repository
of the knowledge that
has been accumulated over
hundreds or thousands of years?
Do you have a library that
we can see that records
what you have come to
understand about this world
and how you answer the
question, who am I?
Well, people in this monastery
didn't have much company
and they were really
happy to see us
and they opened the door
to one of their monasteries
and gave us access
into a library.
And to get to that library
was an experience unto itself.
We had to walk
down the corridors
of 30-foot tall
Buddhas of compassion,
past the magnificent prayer
wheels that we rotate,
and as they rotate,
the prayers inside
are released into the world.
This is their custom.
And it is this
custom that allows
us to move into their
world and to understand
what it is that they
have come to understand.
Well, the library
that they took us to,
this is a Tibetan library.
It's three stories tall.
It's only about 12 feet wide.
It's a very tall room
but very, very narrow.
It's 1,500 years old.
For 1,500 years, the wisdom,
the cumulative wisdom
of this tradition has been
accumulated in this library.
This is what their
books look like.
They're loose papers that are
sandwiched between the covers.
But the thing is, the
wisdom that's in the books
is older than the paper
that they're written on.
The wisdom originated before
paper was ever even invented.
And we find this wisdom on the
cuneiform text of our past,
on the Sanskrit and the
Tibetan stone texts.
And it's this wisdom that is at
the core of the major religions
of the world.
The Hebraic traditions, the
Tibetan Buddhist traditions,
the traditional
Buddhist traditions.
We find it at the basis
of the Hindu traditions,
at the basis of
the pre-Christian
and the Christian traditions,
the Old and the New Testament.
And it's in places like this,
that are isolated and remote,
that I've had the opportunity
to be with the people that
live the traditions that
are in the libraries
with the monks, the nuns,
the abbots of these places,
and in other parts of the world
with the shaman in Bolivia
and in southern Peru,
and in the Yucatan.
And I've had the
opportunity to be
with the women, the women in
southern Peru, for example,
in the Andes Mountains
who were anchoring
this powerful feminine wisdom
that is resurging in the world
right now.
And the point of
all this, the point
of me sharing all
this with you, is
that for 5,000 years,
our indigenous ancestors,
they've asked themselves
the question, who am I?
And they answered the
question for themselves
in a way that made
sense to them?
It wasn't science but it
made sense to the time
and to the people
in their world.
It explained what they
saw in the heavens.
It explained what happened
within their bodies
and between people.
And what's really
fascinating to me right now
is that, in many instances,
the new discoveries
of modern science
actually parallel
the wisdom of our most
ancient and cherished
spiritual traditions.
So for 5,000 years, our
ancestors have done just that.
They've asked, who am I and
they answered it for themselves.
We live in the modern world
of science and science
is a relatively young way
of thinking about the world.
You know, science is
only about 300 years old.
We say that science
began in the 1700s
when Isaac Newton formulated
the laws of physics
and he formalized
them in his textbooks.
So for 300 years,
science has been
trying to answer
the same questions
that our indigenous ancestors
have tried to answer.
For 300 years, science has
asked the question, who are we?
And the way that science
answers this question, they say,
we can't answer it directly.
First we must ask
six sub-questions.
These are called the perennial
questions of science.
When we ask the
question, who are we,
science says to
answer that question
we must first answer the
six perennial questions
and I'm going to share
them with you in this chart
that you're seeing right now.
This is an inverted pyramid.
And at the bottom
of the pyramid,
the point at the
bottom of the pyramid
is where the first of our
perennial questions is listed.
It is the most
fundamental question.
It's one that we're going to
explore throughout this series.
The question is, what
is the origin of life?
Where does life come from?
And I can see why that would
be a foundational scientific
question.
And the second question
is fascinating to me.
It is the question of where
does human life come from?
And it is asked
the way that it is
because what if human life
does not come from where
all other life comes from?
It's a fascinating
question and it's one
that we will explore throughout
this series, as well.
The third question is
about relationships.
What is our relationship
to our bodies?
Are we separate from our bodies
and powerless to do anything
when we see things happening,
illness and disease,
within our bodies, or
are we somehow empowered
to participate and influence
what happens in our bodies?
And I'm using those
words very consciously
because it's not about
control and manipulation.
It's about influence.
Do we have the
power to influence
what happens at
the cellular level
or even deeper at the
genetic level or even deeper
at the energetic level?
The next question, the next
of our perennial questions,
is what is our relationship to
the world beyond our bodies?
And the question
is very similar.
Are we connected
or are we separate?
Are we empowered to
participate and influence
what happens in the
workplace, with our families,
with our jobs, with our careers,
and even between nations?
Or are we powerless to do
anything and we just sit
and watch things happen
for no apparent reason
feeling helpless and powerless
to do anything about it?
The next question is what is
our relationship to the past?
Is the past linear as we
have been led to believe
and been taught in schools
for the last 300 years?
Is the past linear?
Did civilization
begin 5,000 years ago
and progress in a linear
fashion to the pinnacle
of sophistication
that we see today?
Are we the only ones that
have developed the technology
that we have today or
have there been others?
Is civilization cyclic?
That's the question
that science is asking.
The next question, and
perhaps the most fundamental
beyond the origin of life, is
what is the rule of nature?
We are all part of nature.
Nature is the
foundation of our lives.
What is the fundamental
rule of nature?
Is it a rule based in
struggle and conflict,
as Charles Darwin
asked us to believe,
or is there something
else happening?
Is nature actually
based in cooperation?
These are the six
perennial questions.
If you were raised in the
West and if you were educated
in the West in the
last 150 years,
you, as I, have been
imbued with a story.
And it is a scientific story
that says the following.
It says that the origin of
life is completely random.
The origin of human life
is completely random.
Our relationship to
our bodies, we're
told that we are
separate from our bodies
and pretty much
powerless to do anything
when it comes to the condition
of healing in our bodies
and that's why we
need a third party.
That's why we need
the intervention
of a medical
professional to help us
because we have that experience,
because we have that belief.
The relationship to
the world around us?
Pretty much the same answer.
We've been led to believe that
we're separate from our world
and pretty much powerless
when it comes to influencing
the peace and
cooperation, whether it's
in our families or our
communities or between nations.
Our relationship
to our past-- we
have been taught that
civilization happened once.
It began 5,000 years ago
and we are the pinnacle
of that sophistication.
And we have been
taught number six,
that nature, the
fundamental rule of nature
is actually based upon
competition, conflict,
and struggle.
These are the principles of
the world that we see today.
New discoveries have now
overturned every single one
of these beliefs.
Every single one of
the beliefs that you
see on the left-hand
side of your screen
is now proven in
peer-reviewed science
to be scientifically false.
So this isn't my opinion.
It's not my theory.
It's not my hypothesis.
This is based in
peer-reviewed science.
What we now know is that these
false assumptions of science
are at the root, the foundation
of many of the extremes
that we're seeing in our
lives and in our world today.
New discoveries
now are telling us
where we need to
shift our thinking.
Now, I've had people say
to me in the past, Greg,
maybe science didn't get
all these things right,
but science, it's
been pretty good.
I mean, it did
get us to the moon
and it has brought us
penicillin and vaccines.
Where do we go with this?
Why is it important
in our lives?
And I want to just take
a minute and share this
with you because when we
really understand this,
it's so powerful.
Many of the scientific
discoveries,
the false assumptions,
were made in the late 1800s
and the early 1900s,
precisely the time
when our society
was being developed.
So the fundamental
essence of our society,
our economic system, our
corporate system, the way
we deal with natural resources,
the way we share resources,
like food and water, energy and
medicine, all of these things,
they are based in
the ideas that were
embraced as scientific in the
late 1800s and early 1900s.
And even though we now know
that many of them are false,
we're still living
in the system where
those principles are in place.
They are unsustainable
because they're
based in false assumptions.
So what do the new
discoveries now tell us?
The best science of the
20th, now the 21st century,
it's telling us, number
one, the origin of life,
it's not random.
Physical evidence
is telling us this.
The origin of human life
is definitely not random.
The DNA evidence
is telling us this.
We're going to explore
this in future episodes
in this program, this series.
Our relationship to our body?
Science is telling us that we
are deeply, deeply connected.
Our thoughts, feelings,
emotions, and beliefs
trigger the chemistry
in our brain
and in our heart that
releases the healing
hormones, the anti-aging
hormones, the powerful immune
response into our bodies.
And the beauty of
that is that we
get to choose the thoughts,
feelings, emotions and beliefs
that do the triggering.
So we are deeply, deeply
ingrained in this system.
Our relationship to the world?
What we now know is that
civilization is cyclic.
The 5,000 years that
we've been studying
as the history of
the world, that's
only the history of
the most recent cycle.
There was a 5,000-year cycle
before that and one before
that.
We're not sure how
far back that goes.
The fundamental rule of nature?
We now know that nature
is based upon a principle
of cooperation, not
conflict, in what biologists
call mutual aid not struggle.
Now, this isn't denying that
struggle and conflict happen.
We all see it.
But here's the deal, the more
struggle and conflict we see,
that tells us how
far we have strayed
as individuals or as nations
from the truest nature,
the most fundamental principle
of the natural world.
So now, 150 years of
this scientific thinking
is changing because these
new discoveries tell us
they must change.
So we're moving to a new story.
We're moving from a
story of separation
to a story of connection.
We're moving from a story
of competition and conflict,
based in Darwin's ideas
from 150 years ago,
to a new story that's based
upon cooperation and mutual aid
>> Darwin took us
forward to a hilltop,
from where we could look back
and see the way from which we
came.
But for this insight
and for this knowledge,
we must abandon our faith in
the pleasant poetry of Genesis.
>> We must not abandon fate.
Fate is the most
important thing.
>> Then why did God plague
us with the power to think?
Mr. Brady, why do you deny
the one faculty of man
that raises him above the
other creatures of the Earth?
>> This is important for us
right now because of our time
of extremes.
The world is changing,
and we're trying
to solve the problems of
our past in the same ways
that we always have in the
past and it's not working.
It's not working because we
are now a globalized society
and that globalization
has pushed our beliefs
and what we think is true about
ourselves and one another,
it's pushed it to the
very edge of what we now
understand is true.
And the only things that
are breaking down around us
are the unsustainable
ways of thinking,
the unsustainable
solutions of separation,
competition, and conflict.
So what does this mean
for you in your life?
You know, to get wherever you
are in your life right now,
you've had to create your own
ideas and your own beliefs.
And what I'm going to
invite you to do is this.
Take everything that
you've ever held true
and been taught and conditioned
to believe about yourself
and your world and put that into
a file folder called existing
beliefs in your mind, OK?
Because it's worked
for you and it's
gotten you to where
you are right now.
I'm going to invite you now to
create a second file folder,
and if you'll just
label it possibilities.
And into that file
folder of possibilities,
I'm going to invite
you to place all
of these new
discoveries, the fact,
the scientific fact,
that the origin of life,
it's not random.
Human life is not random.
That we're deeply
connected to our bodies.
We're deeply connected
to the world.
That civilization
is cyclic and we've
had advanced technological
civilizations here
multiple times in the past.
And the fact that nature, the
fundamental rule of nature
is based upon cooperation
and mutual aid
not survival of the strongest.
And those are Darwin's
actual words from his book,
survival of the strongest,
later translated
into survival of the fittest.
Nature is not based upon
survival of the strongest.
So when you find yourself
challenged in your world
or when you find
yourself asked to support
other people in positions of
power, who are being asked
to make decisions
on your behalf,
then you can ask
yourself the question,
are they using the file
folder of the old ideas or
are they using the file folder
of the new possibilities?
And when those old
ideas no longer work
and they begin to break
down, rather than struggle
in your personal life,
let that folder go.
Open up that new file
folder of possibilities
and you will be amazed at how
solutions flow into your life,
and how situations change very,
very quickly when we solve them
by applying natural principles
based in the harmony of what
is real and true in our world.
In our next segment,
we're going to zero
in on specific
discoveries that will
overturn that century and a
half of scientific thinking.
And we'll also see how
these discoveries parallel
some of our most ancient and
cherished spiritual traditions
and what they mean for us today.
So I want to thank you for
joining me for this program
and be sure and
tune in for our next
all new episode
of "Missing Links:
The Deep Truth of Our Origin,
History, Destiny and Fate."
[MUSIC PLAYING]